Add manage integration section for k8s-api-operator (#3239)
wso2/docs-apim: en/docs/install-and-setup/setup/kubernetes-operators/k8s-api-operator/manage-integration/integration-deployments.md

# Manage Integrations

The Kubernetes API operator (**k8s-api-operator**) provides first-class support for Micro Integrator deployments in the Kubernetes ecosystem. It uses the **Integration custom resource** (`integration_cr.yaml` file) that is available in the Kubernetes exporter module (exported from WSO2 Integration Studio) and deploys the integration in your Kubernetes environment.

> The operator is configured with an NGINX Ingress controller by default, which exposes the deployed integration through HTTP. If required, you can use the operator's configuration mapper (`integration_controller_conf.yaml` file) to disable the default Ingress controller and apply other configuration changes. 

Reviewer: HTTP/HTTPs protocols.

Author: Fixed

> The operator is configured with an NGINX Ingress controller by default, which exposes the deployed integration through HTTP. If required, you can use the operator's configuration mapper (`integration_controller_conf.yaml` file) to disable the default Ingress controller and apply other configuration changes. 

Reviewer: to update ingress controller configurations. Also, you can use the same file to disable ingress controller creation when applying the operator if you plan to use some other existing ingress controller.

Author: Fixed

##  Prerequisites (system requirements)

Listed below are the system requirements for deploying integration solutions in Kubernetes using the K8s API Operator.

!!! Info
    The K8s API Operator (k8s-api-operator) is built with **operator-sdk v0.16.0** and supported in the below environments.

- [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/) cluster and **v1.14+** client. 
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/)
- Install K8s API Operator using OperatorHub.io. For information, see the installation instructions in the [OperatorHub.io](https://operatorhub.io/operator/api-operator)

## Deploy integration solutions in K8s

!!! Tip
    To try the end-to-end process of deploying integration solutions on Kubernetes, see the integration examples: 

    - [Hello World example](../integration-samples/hello-world)
    - [Message Routing example](../integration-samples/content-based-routing)
    - [JMS Sender/Receiver exampe](../integration-samples/jms-sender-receiver)

Given below are the main steps your will follow when you deploy integration solutions in a Kubernetes cluster.

> 1.  Be sure that the [system requirements](#prerequisites-system-requirements) are fulfilled, and that the [EI K8s operator](#install-the-ei-k8s-operator) is installed in your Kuberenetes environment.

Reviewer: Now APIM operator.

Author: Fixed

Therefore, we can expose the inbound endpoint ports from the Kubernetes cluster by passing the `inboundPorts` property inside our `integration_cr.yaml` custom resource file as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: "integration.wso2.com/v1alpha2"
kind: "Integration"
metadata:
  name: "inbound-samples"
spec:
  image: "<Docker image for the inbound endpoint Scenario>"
  deploySpec:
    minReplicas: 1
  expose:
    passthroPort: 8290
    inboundPorts:
      - 8000
      - 9000
      ...
```

Use the following methods to invoke the inbound endpoints in HTTP and HTTPS transports. Note that `<INTEGRATION-NAME>` is the value we have used as the metadata name in the `integration_cr.yaml` file. 

-   HTTP request

    ```bash
    curl http://<HOST-NAME>/<INTEGRATION-NAME>-inbound/<PORT>/<CONTEXT>
    ```

-   HTTPS request

    ```bash
    curl --cacert <CERT_FILE> https://<HOST-NAME>/<INTEGRATION-NAME>-inbound/<PORT>/<CONTEXT>

>     ```    

Reviewer: It worth mentioning below. 

- all ingress controller related configs are controlled by `integration-ingress-config` configMap defined at `integration_controller_conf.yaml` file. 
- If `minReplicas` and `maxReplicas` are not defined in `` the operator will get pick up what is defined at `integration_controller_conf.yaml` file as defaults. 
- If `autoScale. enabled` is not defined at `` the operator will get pick up what is defined at `integration_controller_conf.yaml` file as the default. 
- All Horizontal Pod scaling configurations are defined under `hpaMetrics` at `integration_controller_conf.yaml` file.

Finally, 
- You can update the `reconcileInterval` (how frequent operator should scan for artefact updates) at `integration_controller_conf.yaml` file.

The operator is configured with an NGINX Ingress controller by default, which exposes the deployed integration through HTTP/HTTPS protocols. If required, you can use the operator's configuration mapper (`integration_controller_conf.yaml` file) to update ingress controller configurations. Also, you can use the same file to disable ingress controller creation when applying the operator if you plan to use a custom ingress controller.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    

##  Prerequisites (system requirements)

Listed below are the system requirements for deploying integration solutions in Kubernetes using the K8s API Operator.

!!! Info
    The K8s API Operator (k8s-api-operator) is built with **operator-sdk v0.16.0** and supported in the below environments.

- [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/) cluster and **v1.14+** client. 
- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/)

> - Install K8s API Operator using OperatorHub.io. For information, see the installation instructions in the [OperatorHub.io](https://operatorhub.io/operator/api-operator)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [K8s API Operator][OperatorHub.io](https://operatorhub.io/operator/api-operator)
```

Follow the steps given below:

1. Apply port forwarding:

    ```bash
    kubectl port-forward service/hello-world-service 8290:8290
    ```

2. Invoke the proxy service:

    ```bash
    curl http://localhost:8290/services/HelloWorld
    ```

    You will receive the following response:

    ```bash
    {"Hello":"World"}%
    ```

## Update existing integration deployments

The K8s API operator allows you to update the Docker images used in Kubernetes pods(replicas) with the latest update of the tag. To pull the latest tag, we need to delete the associated pod with its pod ID as follows:

```bash 
kubectl delete pod <POD-NAME>
```

When you run the above command, Kubernetes will spawn another temporary pod, which has the same behaviour of the pod we have deleted. Then the deleted pod will restart by pulling the latest tag from the Docker image path. 

!!! Note 
    Here we are recommending to use a different image path for the updated integration solution. Otherwise, (because the Docker image is re-pulled from the existing deployment) some traffic from outside might get lost. 

## Run inbound endpoints

> [Inbound Endpoints](../../../references/synapse-properties/inbound-endpoints/about-inbound-endpoints/) in the Micro Integrator are used for separating endpoint listeners. That is, for each HTTP inbound endpoint, messages are handled separately. Also, we can create any number of inbound endpoints on any port. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Inbound Endpoints]({{base_path}}/reference/synapse-properties/inbound-endpoints/about-inbound-endpoints/) in the Micro Integrator are used for separating endpoint listeners. That is, for each HTTP inbound endpoint, messages are handled separately. Also, we can create any number of inbound endpoints on any port. 
```
